What is functional programming.
Functional programming is all about separation of concerns which object oriented programming does as
well right.
It's all about packaging our code into separate chunks so that everything's a well organized in each
part of our code.
Concerns itself with the one thing it's good at.
We remember in our object oriented programming section how we had classes to divide up properties and
methods of let's say an ogre from that of an elf and functional programming has this idea as well of
separating concerns but they also separate data and functions.
That is a functional programmer views the world as well.
There's data and then this data gets interacted with but we're not going to combine both data and functions
as one piece or one object.
Now there is no correct definition for what is and isn't functional but generally functional languages
have an emphasis on simplicity where data and functions are concerned we separate them up and most functional
programming languages don't have these concepts of classes and methods that belong to objects instead
functions operate on well-defined data structures like arrays and objects rather than actually belonging
to that data structure like an object.
And the thing is the goals of functional programming are the exact same as that of object oriented programming.
It's the idea to make our code clear and understandable easy to extend easy to maintain.
It's going to allow us to not repeat ourselves keeping our code dry and keeping our memory efficient
by having these reusable functions that act on data.
Now when it comes to functional programming we have a very important pillar and unlike object oriented
programming where we had those four pillars of encapsulation abstraction polymorphism and inheritance.
If you want to break things down in functional programming it all comes down to this concept of pure
functions.
And this is something that we're going to explore over the next couple of videos.
But the idea here is that there's a separation between data over a program and the behavior of a program
in all objects created in functional programming are immutable something that we'll talk about a little
bit more.
But what that means is once something is created it cannot be changed.
We avoid things like shared state and we adhere to this principle of pure functions.
And as you'll find out functional programming has a lot of restraints a lot of rules things that you
can't do but restraints like these are good encoding because we don't allow people to just do everything
by having small options of things that we can do.
We can make sure that we have code that doesn't get out of hand and before we get into what exactly
is a pure function how to implement functional programming paradigm let's do a little exercise.